README.md, before:

<!--adbio-version-->
[![Visit at https://adbio.pnnl.gov](https://adbio.pnnl.gov/bioviz/services/svg/version?ver=0.02)](https://adbio.pnnl.gov/bioviz/releasenotes.html#0.02)
<!--rsnippet-title-->
#Rsnippet Guidelines
<!--rsnippet-description-->
The Rsnippet Guidelines outlines a set of rules and suggestions for formatting rsnippets to be used with the ADBio program. Rsnippets include a function which takes in a series of inputs, runs a statistical test, and returns the outcome of the test for use by the ADBio program and interactive interface. The basic ADBio program includes a variety of statistical tests previously implemented for the user. If the user would like to create their own tests, this file should serve as as a reference.

<!--rsnippet-data-->
##Code Format
Rsnippets are required to be written in R. They define a function called test which takes in three arrays, performs a statistical test, then returns an array of items for use by the ADBio program. The format of data input is defined by the writer of the test, but all outputs must follow the same format.

<!--rnsippet-file header-->
##Rsnippet File Header
A header should be included at the beginning of every Rsnippet. This header will include:

1. Title
2. Uses
3. Data format
4. Author
5. Date
6. Notes
  
The header should follow the format of the example below:

*Title: Two-sample t-test*

*Uses: The two-sample t-test is used when one varaible is continuous and one variable is categorical with two groups. This test assumes that samples have been drawn from normally distributed populations and that the populations have equal variances. The two-sample t-test is used to test for differences in mean between the groups defined by the categorical variable. Since this test uses the mean, the two-sample t-test should be chosen when the data does not have a large range or is not significantly skewed.*

*Data Format: The data contains numerical values. (Other examples include: the data is binary, values are encoded as strings)*

*Author: Kaitlin Cornwell*

*Date: June 1, 2016*

*Notes: Follow this example to create Rsnippet headers*

<!--rsnippet-input-->
##Input
The input should include three separate arrays - meta, group, and null_string.

|Variable     |Description|
|:-------------:|:---------:|
| meta | An array of the data that is to be analyzed (the column of data for which the test is to be performed). |
| group | An array of the strings "IN" and "OUT". "IN" signifies that the corresponding index in meta is a part of the cluster that is being analyzed. "OUT" signifies that the corresponding index in meta belongs to a different cluster. |
| null_string | An array of the strings that have been used to encode missing/null data. |

<!--rsnippet-body-->
##Body and Testing
To begin, missing data should be handled accordingly. Additionally, if there are overt assumptions regarding the test, they should be checked. For example, if a test on a categorical variable requires that counts within a group are greater than a certain number, that assumption should be tested. If the assumption is not met, then an error code can be returned. Once all necessary assumptions have been checked, the test should be performed.

<!--rsnippet-return values-->
##Return Values
The Rnsippet test function returns an array of values - testMethods, errorcode, pvalues, types, labels, gin, and gout.

|Value     |Description|
|:--------:|:-------:
|testMethods|The name of the test used encoded as a string.|
|errorcode|The value returned if there was an error in processing the data encoded as a numeric. If no error has occurred the value is 0.|
|pvalues|The value of the p-value obtained with the statistical test encoded as a double.|
|types|The type of varaible analyzed encoded as a string. This is used to determine what type of chart the data should be displayed in.|
|labels|The labels that are to be used for the different groups tested encoded as an array of strings.|
|gin|The data included within the "in" group encoded as an array. This is used to gather counts for the displayed chart.|
|gout|The data included within the "out" group encoded as an array. This is used to gather counts for the displayed chart.|

Commit message:

Mistake Fixes
Added that Rsnippets can only use specified Rpackages if using the server.
Added the null and alternative hypothesis to the "Uses" section of the header.
Added the error message as a part of the errorcode array in the return value.
Changed types to charts in the return value.

README.md, after:

<!--adbio-version-->
[![Visit at https://adbio.pnnl.gov](https://adbio.pnnl.gov/bioviz/services/svg/version?ver=0.02)](https://adbio.pnnl.gov/bioviz/releasenotes.html#0.02)
<!--rsnippet-title-->
#Rsnippet Guidelines
<!--rsnippet-description-->
The Rsnippet Guidelines outlines a set of rules and suggestions for formatting rsnippets to be used with the ADBio program. Rsnippets include a function which takes in a series of inputs, runs a statistical test, and returns the outcome of the test for use by the ADBio program and interactive interface. The basic ADBio program includes a variety of statistical tests previously implemented for the user. If the user would like to create their own tests, this file should serve as as a reference.

<!--rsnippet-data-->
##Code Format
Rsnippets are required to be written in R. They define a function named test which takes in three arrays, performs a statistical test, and then returns an array of items for use by the ADBio program. If the writer plans on using their Rsnippet with the ADBio program server, as opposed solely using their local machine, they are restricted to the Rpackages already used by the server. The format of data input is defined by the writer of the test, but all outputs must follow the same format.

<!--rnsippet-file header-->
##Rsnippet File Header
A header should be included at the beginning of every Rsnippet. This header will include:

1. Title
2. Uses
3. Data format
4. Author
5. Date
6. Notes
  
The header should follow the format of the example below:

*Title: Two-sample t-test*

*Uses: The two-sample t-test is used when one varaible is continuous and one variable is categorical with two groups. This test assumes that samples have been drawn from normally distributed populations and that the populations have equal variances. The two-sample t-test is used to test for differences in mean between the groups defined by the categorical variable. The null hypothesis is that the means are equal, while the alternative hypothesis is that the means are not equal. Since this test uses the mean, the two-sample t-test should be chosen when the data does not have a large range or is not significantly skewed.*

*Data Format: The data contains numerical values. (Other examples include: the data is binary, values are encoded as strings)*

*Author: Kaitlin Cornwell*

*Date: June 1, 2016*

*Notes: Follow this example to create Rsnippet headers.*

<!--rsnippet-input-->
##Input
The input should include three separate arrays - meta, group, and null_string.

|Variable     |Description|
|:-------------:|:---------:|
| meta | An array of the data that is to be analyzed (the column of data for which the test is to be performed). |
| group | An array of the strings "IN" and "OUT". "IN" signifies that the corresponding index in meta is a part of the cluster that is being analyzed. "OUT" signifies that the corresponding index in meta belongs to a different cluster. |
| null_string | An array of the strings that have been used to encode missing/null data. |

<!--rsnippet-body-->
##Body and Testing
To begin, missing data should be handled accordingly. Additionally, if there are overt assumptions regarding the test, they should be checked. For example, if a test on a categorical variable requires that counts within a group are greater than a certain number, that assumption should be tested. If the assumption is not met, then an error code can be returned. Once all necessary assumptions have been checked, the test should be performed.

<!--rsnippet-return values-->
##Return Values
The Rnsippet test function returns an array of values - testMethods, errorcode, pvalues, charts, labels, gin, and gout.

|Value     |Description|
|:--------:|:-------:
|testMethods|The name of the test used encoded as a string.|
|errorcode| An array of the value returned if there was an error in processing the data, encoded as a numeric, and the error message to be given to the user, encoded as a string. If no error has occurred the value is 0.|
|pvalues|The value of the p-value obtained with the statistical test encoded as a double.|
|charts|An array of the chart types, encoded as strings, that will be used to output the data. Chart type options can be found at http://www.highcharts.com/demo.|
|labels|The labels that are to be used for the different groups tested encoded as an array of strings.|
|gin|The data included within the "in" group encoded as an array. This is used to gather counts for the displayed chart.|
|gout|The data included within the "out" group encoded as an array. This is used to gather counts for the displayed chart.|
